the alpine peaks and mossy forest a
yakushima drops dramatically quickly to
sandy shores but I've not just come down
here to get away from the cold I've come
to find some very special Japanese
macaques this is a really Hardy and
resourceful species but this particular
troop is one of the most studied and a
most special in whole world wonderful
constant echoing of sounds around this
gully here the reason for that is that
before we turned up there this would be
pretty much silent but us coming here
has provided a source of interest for
the Greek all of the sudden there's
something for them all to be commenting
on they had different degrees of
tonality to them and each different
squeak would be quite similar to the
phrase that you or I might use this is a
really good sized troop I mean they can
get up to about a hundred I'd say this
is pushing that this monkeys
absolutely everywhere
I would never normally suggest feeding
of wild animals all these little scraps
that are going on as the feedings taking
place is very characteristic of feeding
behavior in primates there's a strict
structure that he gets fed first
and if you get in the way of it a fight
starts spilling of these which is going
on for that 50 years it's led to some
very special understanding of behavior
in primates and a particular Jones
macaws these two here of scrabbling I'll
tell you about it
quiet down chats
back in the 50s a young female took a
potato thrown onto the beach and washed
it in a stream it was the first time
this behavior had ever been witnessed
and slowly it spread through the group
with youngsters and females keen to
follow her lead and had grown males
least interested to learn later a monkey
discovered how to separate wheat from
wet sad she threw fistfuls of the mix
into the sea and then she could pick up
the floating wheat while the sand grains
sank it's simple but effective and soon
the whole troop had learned her trick
and even seem to like the salty taste
more recently this group have learnt
from each other how to eat shellfish
even how to swim and each new generation
picks it up by watching and imitation
together all these innovations build up
their common knowledge and that's what
we call culture whether we're talking
monkeys or humans it's quite something
to think that just a few weeks ago I was
watching dancing cranes and the snows of
Hokkaido and now I'm sharing a sandy
beach with Japanese macaques and we're
in the same country
these extremes reflect Japan as a whole
urban and congested yet also silent and
wild whilst plundering the seas they
brought back cranes from the verge of
extinction and preserved whole islands
like this one for wildlife